a few months ago this product was
announced out of nowhere it's called the
tiny pod and it's a gadget that
transforms your Apple watch into this
iPod looking thing but it also has a
scroll wheel and the marketing around
this thing is very interesting it kind
of hits on the whole Nostalgia and like
Simplicity of a device like this but
because the core of this product is an
Apple Watch it has a lot of modern kind
of smartphone functionality you can
stream and download music on this thing
you can check your messages you can use
it for maps your email basically every
app that exists on an Apple Watch you
have access to but most importantly you
have access to a phone because if your
Apple watch has an LTE signal you have a
phone and this tiny machine this tiny
pod can suddenly be used as a tiny phone
and in theory could replace an iPhone
now the Nostalgia Factor on this thing
was very high when I saw all this
marketing I was like that is so cool if
this thing's like 100 bucks or less I
want to try it it turns out it's $7 $9
now I was sent an early production
sample last week and it comes in a very
simple packaging it's kind of like it's
got some apple Vibes going on but when
you pop it open the first thing I
noticed was that there's like a very
thin layer of grease on this whole thing
it didn't make sense at first but you'll
understand why in a second but the other
thing I noticed right out of the box was
that this thing does not look nearly as
nice in real life as it did in the
renders like when I looked on the
website I was looking around like
everything looks so perfect on that site
and also the kind of plastic
imperfections are not visible on the
renders but here it just it almost feels
like a child's toy like almost like a
burner toy for kids like if Fisher Price
made a burner phone for kids like this
is what it would look like uh but I got
it in and I'm like hey I got to check
this thing out now this particular unit
houses uh well the the the Apple watch
I'm putting here is an Apple Watch se
but they make different sizes depending
on the Apple watch that you want to
throw in but the first thing I checked
out was the scroll wheel and it works
but it's not great it's not this smooth
and effortless scroll wheel like you
might expect or might hope it's very
inconsistent now on this particular unit
I've even stuffed a piece of paper at
the top of my Apple watch just to be
able to make sure that it's got a very
snug fit because this whole Contraption
needs to have very tight fitting parts
to be able to make it go um so it fits
perfectly is just that the mechanism is
not perfect now let me show you how this
whole thing works cuz it is interesting
the way they've done it if you think
about it an Apple Watch is typically
controlled by the crown so how do you
transfer the rotational energy of your
scroll movements to turning the Apple
watch so they have this neat mechanism
that's entirely mechanical there's no
like Wireless uh stuff there's no
electronics on the inside it's just a
mechanical system and kind of cool so
normally has screws I removed those
previously but this is is the scroll
wheel and as you spin it around it has a
series of pulleys that in turn activates
the crown of the Apple watch which would
sit inside like so and as you rotate
your scroll wheel and it turns the
pulley it turns the crown it's a neat
mechanism but if you're wondering why
all that lube was sitting all over this
is a mechanical thing that needs to be
well lubricated in order to move
properly and I think that's why there
was like excess grease when I opened
this thing up but it is neat as to how
they were able to engineer scroll wheel
to work with an Apple watch now the next
thing you might think is like okay they
solved that but how did they solve the
click like the button how did they solve
you know getting into the things that
you've selected let me tell you it turns
out they didn't so there's no way to
select the things that you've selected
using the scroll wheel area you have to
touch and or tap the screen and the
moment I realized this I was like this
just falls apart for me like the moment
you're touching the screen then the
whole scroll wheel functionality falls
apart and then the whole Nostalgia
element of this thing falls apart
because half of what makes a good scroll
wheel is the mechanism of like selecting
things like this is uh first generation
iPod Nano super old but look at this
thing like super precise right but if
you want to click on something it's just
like you're
in right and it's like it's got this
tactile feel to it now on the tiny pod
there is a bit of like tactility as you
scroll around because the haptics of the
appple watch are clicking in but there's
this is not functional I'm like what is
this and I look on the website and it's
not very clear that this is not a button
or anything you have to tap on the
screen and the moment you're doing
that I don't know it almost feels like a
Teemu version of what this product could
have been if it worked the way that we
would expect it to like if the scroll
wheel worked really well flawlessly like
nicely machine and everything was tight
and effortless and consistent and also
if the button worked like that that
would be really neat but in its current
state it just feels it feels like a toy
that doesn't work the way that we want
it to if I'm being completely honest but
there is a cheaper version of this that
doesn't have the scroll with they have a
$30 version that's just like a case for
the form factor and I will say that if
you hold this device it's easier to hold
and manipulate it than it would be if
you're just using the like the Apple
watch by itself without any straps if
you're trying to use like you know I
mean if this is the tiny pod this is the
tiniest pod right there's no and it's
it's but this is this doesn't feel
comfortable in your hands if you're
using it so I don't want to knock on the
company I think it's really cool when
companies try cool stuff like this it's
interesting the idea of it not going to
lie it's awesome it's just that it's not
implemented in a way that I think most
people will enjoy especially if you came
at this thing they hope that would be
like this nostalgic experience for the
Apple watch all right hope you guys
enjoyed this video